Welcome back.
I'm on the AWOS platform Web site over here and you can see that they have a lot of services that we
can use.
All of them with pretty interesting sounding names.
Amazon are Rora Amazon recognition where we can do image recognition similar like we have with our clarify
API.
They have storage they have compute.
They have migration.
They have our VR.
If there's one thing that there's no shortage of is all the services that make your head hurt and you
just cannot decide what you need and what you want to do.
So I'm going to go over some of the basic ones.
Some of the ones that are the most common and things that you'll most likely encounter in your day to
day job.
But if you want to you can go explore different services and see what they offer.
Chances are that if you're trying to do something Amazon probably offers an easy solution for it.
Now you still will have to write code but they take care of all those pain points that perhaps we don't
want to worry about such as configuration set ups in machines.
Anyway let's get back on track.
The ones I'm going to talk about are these five and like I said before these are the most common ones
that you'll see.
And we're getting right now into what we call dev ops field which as a web developer you might not touch
as much because some companies have dedicated people that work on these things because there's just
so many things they need to keep up with.
But it's really important for us to know how these pieces fall into our Web developer stack.
Now let's start off with this one in the corner easy to again naming Amazon is not the best naming.
So they're kind of hard to really wrap your hand around.
You might have to come back to this video but you'll get it by the end of it.
Don't worry now.
Easy 2 is what we call a bare metal machine to run and whatever compute you want.
So you want to think of easy to as a basic server you can run kind of like the Digital Ocean Linux server
that we created.
That's what E.C do is you can run your back and rest API or a server on easy to instead of let's say
Digital Ocean or Laroque.
So that's pretty nice and we've used something like that before so that makes sense.
All we need to do is sign up on AWOS and say I want this and they'll set everything up for you.
You can tell them Oh yeah I want this to have node available and ill be on a Linux machine.
So that's nice.
This is a general purpose bare metal server.
Then there's s three and ESRI is what we call an object storage service.
Now what that means is that each object is stored as a file with its metadata and ID and you can think
of it as an object right.
That's what as soon as an object storage you have a key or an ID.
And with that I.D. you can access whatever object that Id stores and why is that useful.
Well with as sweet it enables us to upload and store and also download pretty much any file or object
that we may want if we want to store an image that we can load that on Esrey if we want to store maybe
a massive object yet we can store that over here.
For example with our smart brain app we want to load the images or save the images that the users send
to clarify API here so that in the future we can train the model better and S3 has a size limit of five
gigabytes.
So you can imagine you can load up some pretty big things but it's great for storage.
Maybe we want to have profile pictures for our smart brain app and our users well we might want to load
up the profile pictures and the S3 bucket.
Let's talk about the next one.
And this is the one that really really gets me excited.
And we're going to be actually experimenting with this in this section.
It's called Lamda and Lamda with Lamda you can run code for virtually any type of application or back
in service.
The beauty is that you simply just provided a function lambda simply says Hey just give me a function
and let me know when to run it and I'll run it for you.
That's it.
There's zero administration that we need.
Zero Configuration.
We simply upload our code and Lamda takes care of everything you're required to run and scale your code
with high availability.
That means whenever we need that code run don't worry Amazon's gonna take care of it.
If 1000 people try to run the code at the same time the function of the same time let's say the insert
image function well lambda automatically is going to scale and have oil.
I'll just create multiple instances of this function so that we can handle a thousand a million users.
And this is something that we're going to talk about later on in this course as we build our own lambda
function and you'll have a better idea of what it does.
It has some really interesting applications.
For example with lambda you can use events to get triggered.
Maybe somebody mentions you in your app while you can trigger a lambda to run the function notify about
message again we're going to get into this later on.
So hold on tight.
This is very very exciting.
Let's talk about the next one.
Cloud front Amazon Cloud front is a web server that speeds up distribution of our static files and you
might think of this as a CDN are a shemale CSSA javascript image files can now be put on cloud front
and Amazon delivers this content through a world wide network of data centers exactly like a CDN does.
So we've talked about CloudFlare before and CDN as well.
Again something that we cover and performance part 3 and this makes our apps extremely fast when we
request our HD mail CSSA javascript files because Amazon has so many servers everywhere around the world.
If I'm in India well whatever server is closest to me is going to serve up that static file and they
also provide automatic HGT.
Yes.
So secure connection.
And then finally we have something like Dynamo D-B.
Again Amazon also lets you have databases and this is a fast no Eskew database.
And again they manage a scaling for you and it uses something that we're familiar with key value storage
model a key and a value and you can access that whatever value is in the database through that key.
And it's known for its reliability with performance and a lot of people are using it and web mobile
Hayati gaming and so many other things.
That was a lot and there's a ton of other services.
But I hope this gives you an idea what they provide for us.
So we don't have to go out on our own and start building things from scratch.
Now there's something called flowcharts or Amazon flowcharts and it shows what people use to make their
architecture or how their logic flows through their app.
And there's many many ways that you can attach pieces kind of like Lego blocks and try different things.
Here's an example.
With our app our smart brain up for example we can have cloud front CD fans all over the world so that
when a user goes online from anywhere in the world they're served our shemale CSSA and javascript files
from whatever service the closest and then that CDN wants the user has the files.
If they make a request to our back and rest API which we can put on our C-2 instance is now our rest
API our Xpress server.
And then in here maybe we can store our user information in Dynamo D-B our user profiles perhaps we
can leave them here and then perhaps when they submit an image instead of having it work over here because
this machine is already busy listening to connections maybe we just trigger a lambda function and this
lambda function says all right you just send me a U r l of an image.
I'm going to send that image to clarify get a response and perhaps store that response object in our
Esrey bucket so we can analyze it later.
And the Esrey bucket is going to return us whatever.
Clarify sent us.
And theres so many ways that you can built this.
And thats the beauty of it.
Its like your a little web developer child building different things based on what your needs are.
And this is when being a senior developer and understanding how things are connecting is important because
you can look at these diagrams and the needs of your application to decide what is the best flow they
can have.
Lets have a look at some of the photos that people have come up with.
If I simply type here let's say AWOS flow
and let's do images.
I got flow logs
you see over here that we get a ton of different things that we can do.
And sometimes your head hurts.
We can open this one but we can see it.
Your head hurts from all the things that you can do.
Now the best thing you can do is just learn about what each one of these does so that when a problem
arises when you say hmm my server is starting to slow down because of all these users what can we do
to scale it to manage it.
You can say Let me check out Amazon and see what kind of services they provide that might help with
us.
And like I said this is getting into a topic that we called them ops and some web developers might not
even touch it.
Yes but as a senior developer its important to understand infrastructure and how things are connected
and how things can grow.
Because by building applications with this idea in mind when we start very very small.
As long as we have this sort of thing in the back of our mind we write code that will work well with
some of this infrastructure.
For example if we have small tiny functions we can now just slowly give some of these functions to perhaps
AWOS lambda.
All right.
So I hope you're starting to get a little bit excited because soon we're going to be implementing our
own lambda function with AWOS.
For now though I'll see in the next video by.